trtllm instructions (#433)
triton-inference-server/client: src/c++/perf_analyzer/docs/llm.md

The following guide shows the reader how to use Triton
[Perf Analyzer](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/client/tree/main/src/c%2B%2B/perf_analyzer)
to measure and characterize the performance behaviors of Large Language Models

> (LLMs) using Triton with [TensorRT-LLM](https://github.com/NVIDIA/TensorRT-LLM) and [vLLM](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm).

Reviewer: Looks awesome 👍

> ## Setup: Download and configure Triton Server environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Setup: Download and configure Triton Server and Client environment
```

### Using TensorRT-LLM

> 1. Follow [step 1](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/tutorials/blob/main/Popular_Models_Guide/Llama2/trtllm_guide.md#installation) of the Installation section.

Reviewer 2: idk what to put for `<release branch>` at this link

>     This guide will replace the llama model for gpt since it is already included in the tensorrtllm_backend repository release.

Reviewer: I think it would be better to just stick to llama model since the Katherine's guide uses llama model. Mixing the two might confuse the reader, unless we are going to provide detailed guide for running gpt model.

Reviewer: gpt weights also need to be downloaded from huggingface as well (https://github.com/NVIDIA/TensorRT-LLM/tree/main/examples/gpt#1-download-weights-from-huggingface-transformers). But I understand your point since Llama does require extra steps like gaining access to the weights etc.

Author: Updated to llama

2. Launch the Triton docker container with the TensorRT-LLM backend.
This will require mounting the repo from step 1 into the docker container and any models you plan to serve.

    For the tensorrtllm_backend repository, you need the following two directories mounted:

> - repo: .../tensorrtllm_backend/:/tensorrtllm_backend

Reviewer: Could you clarify what repo here means? Does it correspond to `-v /path/to/model/repo:/repo` or `-v /path/to/tensorrtllm_backend:/tensorrtllm_backend` in the command below?

Author: Updated to:
- backend: .../tensorrtllm_backend/:/tensorrtllm_backend
- llama repo: .../llama/repo:/Llama-2-7b-hf
- engine: .../tensorrtllm_backend/tensorrt_llm/examples/llama/engine:/engines

- engine: .../tensorrtllm_backend/tensorrt_llm/examples/gpt/gpt_outputs:/engines

```
docker run --rm -it --net host --shm-size=2g \
    --ulimit memlock=-1 --ulimit stack=67108864 --gpus all \

>     -v /path/to/tensorrtllm_backend:/tensorrtllm_backend \

Author: I think this is an accepted approach but im open to changing it. 
can you provide a snippet because I have never done it that way before

>     -v /path/to/tensorrtllm_backend:/tensorrtllm_backend \

Reviewer: After the step 1, users will be inside `tensorrtllm_backend` directory so my suggestion:
```
-v $(pwd):/tensorrtllm_backend
```

>     -v /path/to/tensorrtllm_backend:/tensorrtllm_backend \

Author: ```
docker run --rm -it --net host --shm-size=2g \
  --ulimit memlock=-1 --ulimit stack=67108864 --gpus all \
  -v $(pwd):/tensorrtllm_backend \
  -v $(pwd)/tensorrt_llm/examples/gpt/gpt_outputs:/engines \
  nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:23.10-trtllm-python-py3 \
  bash
```

updated

    -v /path/to/model/repo:/repo \
    -v /path/to/engines:/engines \
    nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:23.10-trtllm-python-py3 \
    bash
```

> 3. Create the [engine](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/tutorials/blob/main/Popular_Models_Guide/Llama2/trtllm_guide.md#create-engines-for-each-model-skip-this-step-if-you-already-have-an-engine).

Reviewer 2: instead of having the actual instructions in a link over the word "engine", can you rephrase it to something like "Create the engine by following steps 1 and 2 at this link"?

Author: Updated the language: Follow the steps [here](...) to create the engine.

>     If you use `--output_dir /engines`, the engine will be available in the docker container in a well known location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Building the engine in the container with `--output_dir /engines` flag will place the compiled `.engine` file under the directory.
```

4. Serve the model with [Triton](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/tutorials/blob/main/Popular_Models_Guide/Llama2/trtllm_guide.md#create-engines-for-each-model-skip-this-step-if-you-already-have-an-engine).

    After copying the model repository, use the following sed commands to set some required values in the config.pbtxt files.

```
sed -i 's#${tokenizer_dir}#/tensorrtllm_backend\/tensorrt_llm\/examples\/gpt\/gpt2\/#' /opt/tritonserver/inflight_batcher_llm/preprocessing/config.pbtxt
sed -i 's#${tokenizer_type}#auto#' /opt/tritonserver/inflight_batcher_llm/preprocessing/config.pbtxt
sed -i 's#${tokenizer_dir}#/tensorrtllm_backend\/tensorrt_llm\/examples\/gpt\/gpt2\/#' /opt/tritonserver/inflight_batcher_llm/postprocessing/config.pbtxt
sed -i 's#${tokenizer_type}#auto#' /opt/tritonserver/inflight_batcher_llm/postprocessing/config.pbtxt

> sed -i 's#${decoupled_mode}#false#' /opt/tritonserver/inflight_batcher_llm/tensorrt_llm/config.pbtxt

Reviewer: Should this be set to `true` if we are going to use streaming?: https://github.com/triton-inference-server/tensorrtllm_backend#modify-the-model-configuration

sed -i 's#${engine_dir}#/engines/#' /opt/tritonserver/inflight_batcher_llm/tensorrt_llm/config.pbtxt
```

    Additionally, copy over the .engine file in the /engines directory to the model repository /opt/tritonserver/inflight_batcher_llm

> 

Author: Added a note

> ### Using vLLM

Reviewer: Can we also add `### Run Triton Client SDK Container` markdown header at [here](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/client/blob/56e4ebcb7596eb1403d1a15b4d1df1f58ccae652/src/c%2B%2B/perf_analyzer/docs/llm.md?plain=1#L59)?

The following guide shows the reader how to use Triton
[Perf Analyzer](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/client/tree/main/src/c%2B%2B/perf_analyzer)
to measure and characterize the performance behaviors of Large Language Models
(LLMs) using Triton with [TensorRT-LLM](https://github.com/NVIDIA/TensorRT-LLM)
and [vLLM](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm).

## Setup: Download and configure Triton Server and Client environment

### Using TensorRT-LLM

1. Follow [step 1](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/tutorials/blob/main/Popular_Models_Guide/Llama2/trtllm_guide.md#installation)
of the Installation section.

    This guide will replace the llama model for gpt since it is already
    included in the tensorrtllm_backend repository release.

    Currently, the most recent release is 0.6.1.

2. Launch the Triton docker container with the TensorRT-LLM backend.
This will require mounting the repo from step 1 into the docker container
and any models you plan to serve.

    For the tensorrtllm_backend repository, you need the following two directories mounted:
- backend: .../tensorrtllm_backend/:/tensorrtllm_backend

> - engine: .../tensorrtllm_backend/tensorrt_llm/examples/gpt/gpt_outputs:/engines

Author: The second mount, the huggingface repo, is a child directory of the backend mount. I do not think that is necessary.

```
docker run --rm -it --net host --shm-size=2g \
    --ulimit memlock=-1 --ulimit stack=67108864 --gpus all \
    -v /path/to/tensorrtllm_backend:/tensorrtllm_backend \
    -v /path/to/model/repo:/repo \
    -v /path/to/engines:/engines \
    nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:23.10-trtllm-python-py3 \
    bash
```

> 3. Create the [engine](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/tutorials/blob/main/Popular_Models_Guide/Llama2/trtllm_guide.md#create-engines-for-each-model-skip-this-step-if-you-already-have-an-engine).

Reviewer 2: above it's mentioned that this guide is using gpt model but the link for engine creation you gave gives a command for llama? how do I find out what the right engine creation command is for gpt model?

Author: I think we are sticking with llama now.

    Building the engine in the container with the `--output_dir /engines`
    flag will place the compiled `.engine` file under the expected directory.

> 4. Serve the model with [Triton](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/tutorials/blob/main/Popular_Models_Guide/Llama2/trtllm_guide.md#serving-with-triton).

Author: Updated to llama and fixed the link

    After copying the model repository, use the following sed commands to set
    some required values in the config.pbtxt files.

```
sed -i 's#${tokenizer_dir}#/tensorrtllm_backend\/tensorrt_llm\/examples\/gpt\/gpt2\/#' /opt/tritonserver/inflight_batcher_llm/preprocessing/config.pbtxt
sed -i 's#${tokenizer_type}#auto#' /opt/tritonserver/inflight_batcher_llm/preprocessing/config.pbtxt
sed -i 's#${tokenizer_dir}#/tensorrtllm_backend\/tensorrt_llm\/examples\/gpt\/gpt2\/#' /opt/tritonserver/inflight_batcher_llm/postprocessing/config.pbtxt
sed -i 's#${tokenizer_type}#auto#' /opt/tritonserver/inflight_batcher_llm/postprocessing/config.pbtxt

sed -i 's#${decoupled_mode}#true#' /opt/tritonserver/inflight_batcher_llm/tensorrt_llm/config.pbtxt
sed -i 's#${engine_dir}#/engines/#' /opt/tritonserver/inflight_batcher_llm/tensorrt_llm/config.pbtxt
```

  Additionally, copy over the .engine file in the /engines directory to the

>   model repository /opt/tritonserver/inflight_batcher_llm

Author: No longer relevant as we moved to a different model.
